Stopping child genital cutting and promoting the foreskin - Anti-circumcision Advocates | Intact America
Changing the Way America Thinks About Circumcision
Because Circumcision Cuts Through Us All
Donate Now
Take Action
STOP NICU CIRCUMCISIONS: The Case of Cole Groth – Sign the Petition!
On April 19, 2025, a medically unnecessary circumcision nearly cost baby Cole Groth his life. Performed in the NICU at NewYork-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital—despite his serious heart condition—this reckless, non-therapeutic procedure led to catastrophic bleeding and organ damage. Now, Intact America is calling on the AAP, ANA, AHA, AAFP, GNYHA, New York Medicaid, and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital to take immediate action.
Sign the change.org petition below and stand with us to protect NICU babies from genital cutting.
Learn More
Sign the Petition
Skin in the Game
On April 30, 2025, Intact America proudly hosted its inaugural Skin in the Game Award in New York City, honoring artist and activist Alan Cumming for his bold advocacy in celebrating the natural male body and defending children’s right to genital autonomy. The event marked a breakthrough moment for the intactivist movement, uniting longtime advocates and new voices in a powerful evening of stories, connection, and shared purpose. Thanks to the passion and generosity of our community, we raised nearly $150,000 to support our ongoing efforts to end the harm of circumcision through education and advocacy. To all our attendees, sponsors, volunteers, and staff: thank you for making this moment possible, and for proving we all have Skin in the Game. Learn more about the Skin in the Game Award and Intact America’s Skin in the Game campaign below!
Learn More
Visit Skininthegame.org/award
Skin in the Game is a compelling storytelling campaign that underscores the transformative power of sharing personal experiences.
Skin in the Game
Learn More
DoNoHarm.report is a free service for filing medical complaints about forcible foreskin retraction, circumcision solicitation and complications, and other genital harms.
DoNoHarm.report
Learn More
Georganne Chapin and Marilyn Milos release their memoirs detailing their experiences and observations as leaders of the intactivist movement.
Our Books
Learn More
Blog and Media
Read Intact America’s latest publications
Blog
Seeking the Truth: Why the U.S. circumcision rate matters
Read More
Georganne Chapin
July 24, 2026
Blog
Intact America 2026 Initiative: “Mothers’ Infant Health Survey”
Read More
Kristel Alissa
July 9, 2026
Blog
“Banished Knowledge”: Alice Miller and the Blind Spot at the Heart of Circumcision
Read More
Georganne Chapin
April 14, 2026
"Voices"
Reflections on Three Decades in the Movement
Read More
Shelton Walden
January 5, 2026
Blog
Healing Circumcision Trauma: A Therapist’s Guide to Grief, Acceptance, and Intimacy
Read More
Paola Rodriguez
January 4, 2026
Blog
Navigating the Layers of Circumcision Trauma
Read More
Caitlyn Rhorer
December 29, 2025
Ways to Give
Your intactivism and contributions power Intact America as we work to create a world in which no child will ever be subjected to medically unnecessary surgery without their consent.
Upcoming Events
Stay up to date on Intact America’s online and in person events
No event found!
Subscribe to receive our
monthly newsletter!
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Email
*
Marilyn
Marilyn Fayre Milos, multiple award winner for her humanitarian work to end routine infant circumcision in the United States and advocating for the rights of infants and children to genital autonomy, has written a warm and compelling memoir of her path to becoming “the founding mother of the intactivist movement.” Needing to support her family as a single mother in the early sixties, Milos taught banjo—having learned to play from Jerry Garcia (later of The Grateful Dead)—and worked as an assistant to comedian and social critic Lenny Bruce, typing out the content of his shows and transcribing court proceedings of his trials for obscenity. After Lenny’s death, she found her voice as an activist as part of the counterculture revolution, living in Haight Ashbury in San Francisco during the 1967 Summer of Love, and honed her organizational skills by creating an alternative education open classroom (still operating) in Marin County.
After witnessing the pain and trauma of the circumcision of a newborn baby boy when she was a nursing student at Marin College, Milos learned everything she could about why infants were subjected to such brutal surgery. The more she read and discovered, the more convinced she became that circumcision had no medical benefits. As a nurse on the obstetrical unit at Marin General Hospital, she committed to making sure parents understood what circumcision entailed before signing a consent form. Considered an agitator and forced to resign in 1985, she co-founded NOCIRC (National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers) and began organizing international symposia on circumcision, genital autonomy, and human rights. Milos edited and published the proceedings from the above-mentioned symposia and has written numerous articles in her quest to end circumcision and protect children’s bodily integrity. She currently serves on the board of directors of Intact America.
Georganne
Georganne Chapin is a healthcare expert, attorney, social justice advocate, and founding executive director of
Intact America
, the nation’s most influential organization opposing the U.S. medical industry’s penchant for surgically altering the genitals of male children (“circumcision”). Under her leadership, Intact America has definitively documented tactics used by U.S. doctors and healthcare facilities to pathologize the male foreskin, pressure parents into circumcising their sons, and forcibly retract the foreskins of intact boys, creating potentially lifelong, iatrogenic harm.
Chapin holds a BA in Anthropology from Barnard College, and a Master’s degree in Sociomedical Sciences from Columbia University. For 25 years, she served as president and chief executive officer of Hudson Health Plan, a nonprofit Medicaid insurer in New York’s Hudson Valley. Mid-career, she enrolled in an evening law program, where she explored the legal and ethical issues underlying routine male circumcision, a subject that had interested her since witnessing the aftermath of the surgery conducted on her younger brother. She received her Juris Doctor degree from Pace University School of Law in 2003, and was subsequently admitted to the New York Bar. As an adjunct professor, she taught Bioethics and Medicaid and Disability Law at Pace, and Bioethics in Dominican College’s doctoral program for advanced practice nurses.
In 2004, Chapin founded the nonprofit Hudson Center for Health Equity and Quality, a company that designs software and provides consulting services designed to reduce administrative complexities, streamline and integrate data collection and reporting, and enhance access to care for those in need. In 2008, she co-founded Intact America.
Chapin has published many articles and op-ed essays, and has been interviewed on local, national and international television, radio and podcasts about ways the U.S. healthcare system prioritizes profits over people’s basic needs. She cites routine (nontherapeutic) infant circumcision as a prime example of a practice that wastes money and harms boys and the men they will become.
This Penis Business: A Memoir
is her first book.
