Circumcision Resources for Doctors | Circumcision Resources for Nurses | Resources for Midwives — Your Whole Baby
Educate, Empower, Protect.
Healthcare Providers
Information for doctors, nurses, midwives, and other healthcare providers.
Welcome, healthcare providers!
We are proud to be your trusted source for information on circumcision and intact penis care. If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please
contact us
.
Doctors & Nurses
Midwives
Academic Research Library
Anatomy & Medical Textbook Reviews
Support Our Work
Your Whole Baby
We believe if you have the information necessary to see circumcision in a new light, free from cultural blinders, you will not choose it for your child. Your protective instincts will scream NO as far as the ear can hear.
Gently providing education on care of the intact penis, functions of the foreskin, and the lifelong harms of circumcision in an effort to end infant genital cutting.
Privacy Notice
&
Terms of Use
Donate
YOUR WHOLE BABY EN ESPAÑOL
No results found
Your Whole Baby is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, registered in the state of Texas. 2014-2026. All rights reserved. ©
Mailing Address: 539 West Commerce St., Suite 492, Dallas, TX 75208
info@yourwholebaby.org
In Loving Memory of Jonathon Conte, 1981-2016
The information provided on this website is for information and research purposes. It should not be substituted for medical care. For healthcare, seek a qualified medical professional who is knowledgeable on the benefits of a whole body and intact care and who knows the harms involved in circumcision and forced retraction. Visit the
Choosing a Pediatrician
page for assistance in picking a doctor who is right for your family.
This website contains (and links to) graphic content for educational purposes.
Your Whole Baby has a diverse group of members whom we embrace and value. It is our policy to be inclusive and mindful of this diversity in our publications and interactions with others. We are committed to the presence and contributions of all persons regardless of their age, culture, abilities, ethnic origin, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, nationality, race, religion, sexual orientation, and socioeconomic status. We believe that prejudice, oppression, and discrimination are detrimental in the ability to spread awareness of genital autonomy.
Your Whole Baby’s
Cyber Bullying Policy
